README.md
Project: Covid Vaccine Survey Collection

This project is a survey based data collection and presentation using html, php, javascript, and a google api. Knowing the basics of these different coding languages can have someone achieve the same results in a manageable time. When I started to code the project, I unfortunately did not possess much knowledge about any of these languages, except for MySQL, so I learned as I developed the project. 

First Step

For the first step, I designed a html file that would serve as the webpage for the survey. The survey consisted of radio buttons for the first two questions, a drop down for the third, and checkboxes for the last two survey questions. As for design, I used a simple purple background with a white space for all the questions. For the second and last two questions, I created functions using javascript that makes for special restraints so the user cannot submit an incomplete survey. One function makes it so that the user must select a radio button. The last two functions make it possible for the user to not select “None” if they already have selected other checkboxes. I use a submit button so that the user’s choices are then sent to a database created in phpmyadmin. I also made the submit button ask the user if their choices are correct and allow them to select cancel to go back and change any choice. On submit, the user is then taken to the second html webpage, the “CONGRATULATIONS” page, where they can see their selected choices and see how that compares with other users', the statistics.  

Second Step

Now here is where the use of php is needed in order to build a connection to the MySQL database in the phpmyadmin. After building the connection, I insert the user’s answers into specific columns of the database and then display the answers. Now here is where the tricky part comes into play. In order to create pie charts that will be the statistics of the database, I used a google api that generates this. The problem was that the api only accepts two arrays, one being the intended column from the database, the other being integer values. My MySQL database only consists of strings. To get around this, I used a MySQL command within my php to get the number of values from a specific database column and group them by matching values. For example: I counted all the vaccines the users submitted and then grouped them by their specific name. This is saved as an array with integer values. With this, I am able to build pie charts for specific statistics, such as how many of the participants took Moderna as their vaccine. And to make it dynamic, I use a function to always fetch the data after a new survey is submitted to the database. 
